---
{"dg-publish":true,"tags":["article"],"title":"The essence of the Zettelkasten method","date":"2024-11-15T10:43:01+03:00","modified_at":"2024-11-16T11:46:17+03:00","aliases":"The essence of the Zettelkasten method","permalink":"/mine/articles/202411151043/","dgPassFrontmatter":true}
---



**TL;DR**:
* [[openbox/Zettelkasten|Zettelkasten]] не имеет инструкций, поэтому люди выдумывают сами
* Удобная концепция линковки через компас

---

## Questions to method

For example:
- We know we’re supposed to **write one idea per page/card**. What constitutes an “idea”? How do I identify what a good idea is? What does an idea that fits on one card feel like?
- Once you somehow got your idea, there’s the task of **placing and connecting your idea to your collection of existing ideas**. What kind of connection am I looking for? What relationships are worthy of calling a connection? Do any connections work, or do some work better than others? Should I categorize the connections?
- And the dreaded question for any beginner: **How do I start** when I’m, say, on my 5th card, with nothing to connect things to?

## The Compass of Zettelkasten Thinking.

Use this method to discover the underlying context of an idea.

### Instructions

1. take one idea (X) and put it in the centre
2. imagine the four compass directions. each direction helps give definition to the idea in different ways.
    - **NORTH: "Where does X come from?"** what are its origin? what group/category does X belong to? what exists an order of magnitude higher? zoom out. what gave birth to X? what causes X
    - **WEST: "What is similar to X?"** what other disciplines could X already exist in? what other disciplines could benefit from X? what are other ways to say/do X?
    - **SOUTH: "Where can X lead to?"** what does X contribute to? what group/category could X be the headline of? what exists an order of magnitude lower? zoom in. what does X nurture?
    - **EAST: "What competes with X?"** what is the opposite of X? what is X missing? its disadvantage? what could supercharge X?
3. The Zettelkasten structure created around the idea could look something like this:
    - NORTH
        - The Idea
            - SOUTH
            - EAST
        - WEST

Link:: https://feeei.substack.com/p/the-essence-of-the-zettelkasten-method
